# Payment Gateway Design Spec
This document describes the key points in the design of the payment gateway service.

# Components

## Bank Adapter
- The bank adapter implements the payment protocol of the bank.
- The bank adapter manages the bank configuration, for example the bank endpoint.
- The request validation logic is implemented as part of the bank adapter, because different banks may have different validation requirements.
- In production, the bank adapter can be implemented as a plugin in a separate binary. This allows the adapter and the gateway service to have different release cycles.

## MounteBank Adapter
- The adapter for the bank simulator used in this demo.
- The request validation requirements are defined in validation_spec.md. Each requirement has a number for human review.
- The implementation is generated by AI in `ValidateRequest()`.
- The test cases are generated by AI in `ValidationTest.cs`.

## Bank Adapter Factory
- Returns an `IBankAdapter` instance for a given bank name. If we are going to support multiple banks, this pattern may be used.
- The test code can mock the adapter and factory using `Moq`.


# Other Design Points
## Payment ID
- The Payment ID is generated immediately upon receiving the payment request.
- It remains unchanged during the payment process and will be preserved in the database.
- It can be used for logging and tracking the payment footprint.

## Authorization Code
- The Authorization Code is kept as a string because some banks may use other formats.
- The Authorization Code cannot be used as the Payment ID. In error cases the Authorization Code is not generated, but we still need to track the payment.

## Amount data type
- In this example, the amount is an `Int32`. If the caller inputs a value that exceeds the max `Int32` value, the service will hit a JSON parsing error.
- We may consider using a string data type in the protocol and apply stricter validation on receipt.

## CVV type
- The CVV is represented as a string because it can have leading zeros.